Categorizing Software Vulnerabilities

BUFFEROVERFLOW

Buffers are memory areas allocated to an application. A vulnerability 
occurs when data is written beyond the limits of a buffer. By changing
data beyond the boundaries of a buffer, the application can access
memory allocated to other processes. This can lead to a system crash
or data compromise, or a provide escalation of privileges.




NON-VALIDATE INPUT

Programs often require data input, but this incoming data could have 
malicious cintent, designed to force the program to behave in an 
unintended way.

For example, consider a program that raceives an image for 
processing. A malicious user could craft an image file with inavlid 
image dimensions. The maliciously crafted dimensions could force the 
program to allcate buffers of incorrect and unexpected sizes.




RACE CONDITIONS 

This vulnerability describes a situation where the output of an event
depends on ordered or timed outputs. A race condition becomes a 
source of vulnerability when the required ordered or timed events do 
not occur on the correct order or at the proper time.




WEAKNESS IN SECURITY PRACTICES

Systems and sensitive data can be protected through techniques such 
as authentication, authorization and encryption. Developers should stick 
to using security techniques and libraries that have already been 
created, tested and verified and should not attempt to create their own 
security algorithms. These will only likely introdyuce new vulnerabilities.




ACCESS CONTROL PROBLEMS

Access control is the process of controlling who does what and ranges 
from managing physical access to equipment to dictating who has 
access to a resource, such as a file, and what they can do with it, such 
as read or change the file. Many security vulnerabilities are created by 
the improper use of access controls.

Nearly all ccess controls and security practices can be overcome of an 
attacker has physical access to target equipment. For example, no 
matter the permission settings on a file, a hacker can bypass the 
operating system and read the data directly off the disk. Therefore, to 
protect the machine and the data it contains, physical access must be 
restricted, and encryption techniques must be used to protect data 
from being stolen or corrupted.
